This time we are proud to announce Version 2008.06 of Ramaze, the light and
modular open source web framework.

This release features a lot of work directly from our community and we are
really greatful for everybody who helped in testing, patching and contributing
exciting new features.

Our extensive set of specs and docs now covers almost every detail of
implementation and usage. Ramaze is under development by a growing community
and in production use at companies.


Home page:    http://ramaze.net
Screencasts:  http://ramaze.net/screencasts

View source:  http://source.ramaze.net
Github:       http://github.com/manveru/ramaze

Nightly gems: http://gems.ramaze.net
git clone:    git://github.com/manveru/ramaze

IRC: #ramaze on irc.freenode.net


Simple example:

  require 'ramaze'

  class MainController
    def index
      'Hello, World!'
    end
  end

  Ramaze.start


This is a special release, and the first of the upcoming new series of monthly releases.
As you may have noticed, Ramaze has changed to a date base versioning system,
although this means that people who have waited for a 1.0 for the past years
may be disappointed it provides much larger flexibility in detecting new
versions and comparing them with nightly builds.

Another change is the switch from darcs to git and moving our primary
repository to github. There have been serious performance issues regarding
darcs as Ramaze gathered a longer history, using git allows us to move on at a
faster pace again.

Please regard this release as a major step from the previous one, over 450
patches have been applied and there were changes in the internal API.

We are unable to nicely summarize these changes, so this release will not have
a list of the most important ones, if you are concerned about a specific area
feel free to ask on the Mailing list or stop by on IRC.

Special (alphabetic) thanks go to:

  Aman 'tmm1' Gupta         - Tons of patches, support
  andy                      - Cleanup
  Ara T. Howard             - Tagz templating engine
  Clive Crous               - Patches, cleanup
  evaryont                  - Patches for identity helper
  James Tucker              - OSX compatibility, cleanup and fixes
  Jonathan 'Kashia' Buch    - Patches, support and the first ramaze paper
  Keita Yamaguchi           - Much work on the benchmark suite
  Leo Borisenko             - Fix for SourceReload on windows
  Pistos                    - Mathetes, patches and lots of friendly support
  Riku Räisäenen            - Patches for scaffolding example
  Ryan Grove                - Various fixes and patches
  Sam Carr                  - Patches and action matching speedup
  Thomas Leitner            - Patches for identity helper
  Wang Jinjing              - patches, 1.9/1.8.7 compatibility

A complete Changelog is available at
http://darcs.ramaze.net/ramaze/doc/CHANGELOG


Known issues:

  - none yet, waiting for your reports :)


Ramaze Features:
  - Builds on top of the Rack library, which provides easy use of adapters like
    Mongrel, WEBrick, LiteSpeed, Thin, CGI or FCGI.

  - Supports a wide range of templating-engines like: Amrita2, Erubis, Haml,
    Liquid, Markaby, Remarkably and its own engine called Ezamar and (still
    unofficial) Nagoro.

  - Highly modular structure: you can just use the parts you like. This also
    means that it's very simple to add your own customizations.

  - A variety of helpers is already available, giving you things like advanced
    caching, OpenID-authentication or aspect-oriented programming for your
    controllers.

  - It is possible to use the ORM you like, be it Sequel, DataMapper,
    ActiveRecord, Og, Kansas or something more simplistic like DBI, or a
    wrapper around YAML::Store.

  - Good documentation: although we don't have 100% documentation right now
    (dcov says around 75%), just about every part of Ramaze is covered with
    basic and advanced docs. There are a variety of examples, screencasts and a
    tutorial available.

  - Friendly community: there are people from all over the world using Ramaze,
    so you can get almost instant help and info.


For more information please come to http://ramaze.net or ask directly on IRC
irc://irc.freenode.net/#ramaze

Thank you, Michael 'manveru' Fellinger and the Ramaze community
